#summary How to install plugin and prerequisites
= Installation =

== Prerequisites ==

To develop applications using ActiveMessaging you need the following prerequisites:
 #. Ruby and gems
 #. Ruby on Rails (version 1.1+)
 #. Database

== Installing ==

=== Broker ===
ActiveMessaging supports several different brokers now.

==== Stomp ====
Select from the [http://stomp.codehaus.org/Brokers list of brokers that speak Stomp], the recommended choice is ActiveMQ configured with the Stomp listener.
If you do use ActiveMQ, there is a page [ActiveMq dedicated to its install and configuration].  You'll need the stomp gem for this.

==== JMS ====
[http://stomp.codehaus.org/StompConnect StompConnect] exposes any JMS broker as a Stomp broker, so you can use this JMS broker adapter with ActiveMessaging Stomp support to connect to almost any JMS capable broker.  You'll need the stomp gem for this.

==== Amazon Simple Queue Service ====
This is a service provided by amazon, so you don't run the broker, but you do need to sign up for the service and get your own keys to access it.[http://www.amazon.com/Simple-Queue-Service-home-page/b/ref=sc_fe_l_2/103-2654138-3198236?ie=UTF8&node=13584001&no=3435361 Amazon SQS].  No addition gem required - the adapter for this included with ActiveMessaging is standalone.

==== Websphere MQ ====
Formerly IBM MQ Series, Websphere MQ is a commercial messaging broker.  Sylvain Perez has provided a free adapter for this service based on the wmq gem, but you still need to install Websphere MQ to use it. [http://www-306.ibm.com/software/integration/wmq/ Websphere MQ].
 
=== Gems ===
With Ruby and gems installed, get rails and daemons.  You will also need to get the stomp or wmq gems depending on which broker you are using.
{{{
sudo gem install rails
sudo gem install daemons

#optional
sudo gem install stomp
sudo gem install wmq
}}}

=== Plugin ===
To install the plugin into a Rails app:
{{{
script/plugin install http://activemessaging.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/plugins/activemessaging
}}}